Add Beating GAIA blog post (#2170)
huggingface/blog: beating_gaia.md

---
title: "Beating the GAIA benchmark with a Transformers Code Agent 🏅"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/agents/thumbnail.png
authors:
  - user: m-ric
  - user: sergeipetrov
---

## TL;DR

We wanted to show that Transformers Agents is the best library out there to build agents, so we put a Code Agent built with Transformers Agents on top of GAIA, arguably the most difficult and comprehensive agent benchmark.

## Setting the scene: goal, challenges

> What are Agents? For an intro, check [this great interview of Andrew Ng](https://youtu.be/sal78ACtGTc?feature=shared&t=52). 

Reviewer: too many distractions (through resources) in the beginning IMO, some of these can be put at the bottom as useful resources IMO, you already illustrated well

In one sentence: an agent is any system based on an LLM that can choose to call external tools (like a Web search API or a Python interpreter) and iterate on further steps based on the LLM output.

> For a visual analogy: all programs could be described as graphs. Do A, then do B. If/else switches are forks in the graph, but they do not change its structure. We define **agents** as the systems where the LLM outputs will change the structure of the graph. An agent decides to call tool A or tool B or nothing, it decides to run one more step or not: these change the structure of the graph. You could integrate an LLM in a fixed workflow, as in [LLM judge](https://huggingface.co/papers/2310.17631), without it being an agent system, because the LLM output will not change the structure of the graph.
> 

Agent systems give LLMs superpowers. For more detail, read [our earlier blog post on the release of Transformers Agents 2.0](https://huggingface.co/blog/agents).

> [GAIA](https://huggingface.co/datasets/gaia-benchmark/GAIA) is the most comprehensive benchmark for agents. Its questions are very difficult, and highlight certain difficulties of LLM-based systems. Here is an example of a hard question:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GAIA](https://huggingface.co/datasets/gaia-benchmark/GAIA) is the most comprehensive benchmark for agents. The questions in GAIA are very difficult and highlight certain difficulties of LLM-based systems. 

Here is an example of a tricky question:
```

> > Which of the fruits shown in the 2008 painting "Embroidery from Uzbekistan" were served as part of the October 1949 breakfast menu for the ocean liner that was later used as a floating prop for the film "The Last Voyage"? Give the items as a comma-separated list, ordering them in clockwise order based on their arrangement in the painting starting from the 12 o'clock position. Use the plural form of each fruit.

Reviewer: lol this is difficult even for an average human haha

> 

You can see this question encompasses several difficulties:

- Answering in a constrained format.
- Multimodal abilities to read the fruits from the image
- Several informations to gather, some depending on the others:
    - The fruits on the picture
    - The identity of the ocean liner used as a floating prop for “The Last Voyage”
    - The October 1949 breakfast menu for the above ocean liner
- The above forces the correct solving trajectory to use several chained steps.

Solving this requires both high-level planning abilities and rigorous execution, which are precisely two areas where LLMs struggle.

Therefore, it’s an excellent test set for agent systems!

On GAIA’s [public leaderboard](https://huggingface.co/spaces/gaia-benchmark/leaderboard), GPT-4-Turbo does not reach 7% on average. The top submission is (was) an Autogen-based solution with a complex multi-agent system that makes use of OpenAI’s tool calling functions, it reaches 40%.

__Let’s take them on. 🥊__

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/beating_gaia/prepare_for_battle.gif" alt="Let's fight" width=70%>
</p>

> ## 1. Building the right tools 🛠️

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Building the right tools 🛠️
```
maybe instead of numbering and subnumbering only use heading levels? numbering in blogs seem a bit academic IMHO

Author: You're right, I remove all numbers!

You need three main tools to solve GAIA questions:

> **a. Web browser.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**a. Web browser**
```

The best way to improve it in the future would be to replace the calls to requests with a `selenium`-based browser which would also allow to load javascript (many pages cannot load properly without javascript) and accept cookies from pages.

**b. File inspector**

Many GAIA questions use attached files from any type: `.xls`, `.mp3`, `.pdf`… You also need to be able to read files downloaded by your web browser. Once again we use Autogen’s tool since it works really well.

> Many thanks to the Autogen team for open-sourcing their work 🤗

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many thanks to the Autogen team for open-sourcing their work! 🤗
```

**c. Code interpreter**

We will have no need for this since our agent naturally generates and executes Python code: see more below.

> ## 2. Code Agent 🧑‍💻

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Code Agent 🧑‍💻
```

> ### 2.1 Why a Code Agent?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Why a Code Agent?
```
actually numbering is way too academic, making blogs hard to read IMO

Author: You're right, removing numbers for subparts!

> As shown by [Wang et al. (2024)](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.01030), letting the agent express its actions in code (rather than any dictionary like output like JSON) has several advantages, mostly this one: **Code is a very optimized way to express complex sequences of actions**. Arguably if there were a better method to rigorously express detailed actions than our current programming languages, it would have become a new programming language!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As shown by [Wang et al. (2024)](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.01030), letting the agent express its actions in code (rather than any dictionary-like output, e.g. JSON) has several advantages, mostly this one: **Code is a very optimized way to express complex sequences of actions**. Arguably, if there had been a better method to rigorously express detailed actions than our current programming languages, it would have become a new one!
```
readability

    - On average, the paper shows that Code actions require 30% fewer steps than JSON, which amounts to an equivalent reduction in the tokens generated. Since LLM calls are often the dimensioning cost of agent systems, it means your agent system runs are ~30% cheaper.
- Code enables to re-use tools from common libraries
- Better performance in benchmarks, due to two reasons:
    - More intuitive way to express actions
    - Extensive exposure of LLMs to code in training

The advantages above were confirmed by our experiments on [agent_reasoning_benchmark](https://github.com/aymeric-roucher/agent_reasoning_benchmark).

From building transformers agents we can also cite additional advantages:

- Better handling of state, which is very useful for multimodal tasks. Need to store this image/audio/other for later use? No problem, just assign it as a variable in your state and you can re-use it 4 steps later if needed. In JSON you would have to let the LLM name it in a dictionary key and trust the LLM will later understand that it can still use it.
- More readable agent logs.

> ### 2.2 Implementation of Transformers Agents’ CodeAgent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Implementation of Transformers Agents’ CodeAgent
```

To be safer, we preferred to go the opposite way, and **build a LLM-safe Python interpreter from the ground-up**: it’s just a program that runs through an `ast` parsed tree of expressions, and it only runs expressions if we’ve explicitly authorized them. An `import` statement would only be executed if the import is explicitly mentioned in the user-defined list of `authorized_imports`. A default list of built-in standard Python function is defined, it comprises for instance `print` and `range` : anything outside of it will not be executed except explicitly authorized by the user. For instance, `open` (as in `with open(”path.txt”, “w”) as file:`) is not authorized.

When encountering a function call (`ast.Call`), if the function name is one of the user-defined tools, the tool is called with the arguments to the call. If it’s another function defined earlier, it gets run normally.

We also do several tweaks to help with LLM usage of the interpreter:

- Cap the number of operations in execution to prevent infinite loops.
- Cap the number of lines in print outputs to avoid flooding the context length of the LLM with junk.

> ## 3. Basic multi-agent orchestration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Basic multi-agent orchestration
```

Web browsing is a very context-rich activity, and most of this context is useless: for instance in the above GAIA question, the only important information is the image of the painting "Embroidery from Uzbekistan". Anything around it, like the content of the blog we found it on, is generally useless for the broader task solving.

> So this is an instance where a multi-agent step makes sense: we can create a manager agent and a web search agent, with the manager agent solving the higher-level task and assigning specific web search task to the web search agent: then the agent returns only the useful outputs of its search, so that the manager is not cluttered with useless information.

Reviewer: this sentence is too long, needs to be divided

Author: I split it in two!

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/beating_gaia/apes_together.gif" alt="Apes together strong" width=70%>
</p>

Having a designated manager responsible for success also neatly leverages the planning component: a planning step helps the manager identify key steps to accomplish using the given set of tools.

We created exactly this multi-agent orchestration in our workflow:

> - The top level agent is a ReactCodeAgent. It natively handles code since its actions are formulated and executed in Python. It has access to these tools:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The top level agent is a ReactCodeAgent. It natively handles code since its actions are formulated and executed in Python. It has access to these tools:
```
maybe give link to it?

Author: Link added!

    - `file_inspector` to read text files, with an optional `question` argument to not return the whole content of the file but only return its answer to the specific question based on the content
    - `visualizer` to specifically answer questions about images.
    - `search_agent` : this Tool is just a wrapper around a Web Search agent, which is a JSON agent (JSON still works well for strictly sequential tasks, like web browsing where you scroll down, then navigate to a new page, and so on). This agent itself has access to the web browsing tools:
        - `informational_web_search`
        - `page_down`
        - `find_in_page`

>         - …

Reviewer: you could give link to full list at the end?

This embedding of an agent as a tool is a naive way to do multi-agent orchestration, but we wanted to see how far we could push it - and it turns out, it goes quite far!

> ## 4. Planning component 🗺️

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Planning component 🗺️
```

There is now [an entire zoo](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.02716) of planning strategies; we opted for a relatively simple plan-ahead workflow. Every N steps (where N is a hyperparameter) we generate two things:

- a summary of facts we know or we can derive from context and facts we need to discover
- a step-by-step plan of how to solve the task given fresh observations and the factual summary above

An interesting discovery was that if we do not provide the previous version of the plan as input, the score goes up. An intuitive explanation is that an LLM is highly prone to using whatever relevant information it finds in the context. If an LLM sees the previous version of the plan, it’ll try to heavily reuse it instead of rethinking the approach when needed.

Both the summary of facts and the plan are then used as additional context to generate the next action. Planning encourages an LLM to choose a better trajectory by having all the steps to achieve the goal and the current state of affairs in front of it.

> ## 5. Results 🏅

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Results 🏅
```

[Here is the final code used for our submission.](https://github.com/aymeric-roucher/GAIA)

We get 44.2% on the validation set: which means Transformers Agent’s ReactCodeAgent is now #1 overall, with 4 points above the second! **On the test set, we get 33.3%, so we rank #2, in front of Microsoft Autogen’s submission, and we get the best average score on the hardcore Level 3 questions!**

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/beating_gaia/leaderboard.png" alt="We did it!" width=100%>

This is a data point to support that [Code actions work better](https://huggingface.co/papers/2402.01030). I think Code actions will replace JSON/OAI format as the standard for agents writing their actions.

LangChain and LlamaIndex do not support Code actions out of the box to our knowledge, Microsoft's Autogen has some support for Code actions (executing code in [docker containers](https://github.com/microsoft/autogen/blob/57ec13c2eb1fd227a7976c62d0fd4a88bf8a1975/autogen/code_utils.py#L350)) but it looks like an annex to JSON actions. So Transformers Agents is the only library to make this format central!

> ## 6. Next steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Next steps
```
